Kak was an Eskimo boy who lived in Victoria Island in Canada. He
belonged to the Copper Eskimos. This name does not refer in any way to
their complexions as “red Indians,” but is given because the people
make all their knives and implements out of copper. As far as looks
went Kak was quite ordinary--a short, muscular fellow, with brown hair
and gray eyes, and a skin about the color of white boys’ skins at the
end of the summer holidays when they are tanned. But his clothing was
very different from ours, being made entirely of fur.

Kak was not counted a poor boy though he possessed very little. Eskimos
do not go in for possessions. They are a migratory people, always
moving from place to place, and so learn to get on with a small amount
of gear, as we do in camp life. Kak was contented and had no cares. He
never had to make up his mind whether to play with his meccano, or his
electric train, or his radio. He was entirely ignorant of such things
and yet not a bit dull. He found plenty of sport up there in the Arctic
to keep him merry and bright. First of all his parents owned so little
they were never worried about taking care of things; with nothing to do
but kill a few animals for food and fuel and clothes they were as gay
as children, always laughing and joking from morning to night. The boy
could scarcely remember a day that was not full of fun and laughter.

In the winter they lived in a snow house. You would think it must be
cold inside a snow house but it was not, because their large lamp
burned in the house all the time and kept it cozy and warm; so warm
that Kak usually skinned off his coat and shirt as soon as he came
indoors. He did not come in often during the daylight, for he enjoyed
the cold outside, and he was a singularly independent lad, doing just
what he pleased. That is the Eskimo boys’ compensation for not having
toys: they are allowed to do as they like. In the morning Kak did not
get up till he wanted to. He did not have to wash his neck, nor mind
his table manners, nor go to school; and he was never, never sent to
bed. You see as there was only one room in the whole house the family
had to be jolly all together all the time. In the evenings when the
grown-up folks sat around telling stories and singing songs, Kak stayed
with them, and so did his little sister, Noashak. They sat up as long
as they possibly could, and when the sandman came and shut their eyes
in spite of them, they toppled over asleep wherever they were, and
somebody tucked them in between fur blankets.

Kak, whose name means the top of anything or summit, as of a mountain,
was twelve years old when he built his first house by himself. It was a
horrible experience which he will remember all his life.

The way to build a snow house is to cut big blocks the shape of
dominoes out of a hard snowdrift and set them up on edge in a circle,
leaning them inward a little toward the center. You must carve the
first block diagonally in half so that its back makes a hill for the
second row to run up on; and when you have started properly you can
keep on building one row above the next, going up and around like the
red and white on a barber pole, and always leaning them inward till
they just naturally meet at the top, where you sometimes poke a very
small hole for ventilation. The finished dwelling is a beehive of
snow--awfully cold snow which has frozen together safe and solid in a
surprisingly short time. Next you dig a long tunnel through the drift
and a hole in the floor of the house, and that is the way you go in and
out, like rabbits and foxes burrowing to their dens.

A family will occupy this sort of house only about three weeks; for the
heat inside melts the snow walls, and as they cool off somewhat every
night they turn gradually to ice, and the house grows colder and colder
(for ice is much colder than snow) till the owners decide to have a
new one. A few houses are magnificent with windows, ice windows, which
being troublesome to make are carefully removed and placed in the next
house when it is built. Even if the Eskimos continue to live in the
same place they will build a new house every few weeks. When they are
too careless to bother about windows, plenty of light filters through
the white walls; and while the house is occupied the lamp is always
burning brightly inside.

Kak did not live very long in his first house. He spent only one night
under its low dome, and felt very glad indeed that he did not have to
stay there a second night. The way of it was this:

Taptuna, Kak’s father, was going seal hunting with a neighbor. These
neighbors, who were the only other people living within ten miles,
had used up all their supply of blubber. Now blubber is the fat part
of seals out of which drips the oil for the lamps, and as the lamp is
the Copper Eskimo’s only means of warming his house and cooking his
food, this was a serious situation. In his need the neighbor came to
borrow from Taptuna, and begged him to help hunt seals. Taptuna readily
agreed, for he was a kind-hearted man; so they started out early. But
seal hunting through the ice is slow and difficult, and the first day
they failed to get any. The next morning, however, while crossing a
sandspit, they discovered the remains of a dead whale, half buried in
drifted snow and earth. It must have been two years old at least, and
the bears and other animals had eaten most of the fat; but Taptuna
and Hitkoak hoped by cutting off parts of the outside flesh, which
would make good enough dog feed, to strike an ample supply of blubber
underneath. So they abandoned the hunt and fell on this free gift,
eager to get all they could and that at once, for sled tracks in the
snow showed other Eskimos knew about the prize.

They worked all day, not stopping to drag the meat home but piling it
up chunk on chunk, only to find by evening that some crafty bear had
clawed under and scooped away the very store of blubber on which they
were counting. It meant they must hunt next morning and _must_ catch a
seal without fail.

Both men hated to waste the heaps of frozen whale flesh which had given
them all the work they wanted to hack off with soft copper knives.
Copper will not make nearly so sharp a knife as steel. Taptuna and
Hitkoak, sweating after their labor, wished they had stopped about
noon, harnessed the dogs, and sledded home some of this good food. It
was too late now, and to-morrow they must hunt. Oil for the lamps was
more necessary than dog feed. Until they killed a seal the neighbor
would go on borrowing blubber from Taptuna, and it was already past
mid-winter so he had not much left for his own family.

It looked as if their effort over the whale was going to be a dead
loss; but the older, wiser man promised to sleep on the question, and
next morning, when Guninana was boiling their breakfast, he said:

“Kak, my boy, while I am watching the seal hole to-day, you may harness
both dogs to the sled and go to the carcass over yonder and bring
home some loads of whale flesh. The young bear I killed will not last
forever, eh? And it is well to lay in food while the laying’s good.”

Had Kak been an English or American school-boy he would doubtless have
mumbled, “All right, dad,” and gone on eating his breakfast without
giving any visible sign of his thrill. But an Eskimo never learns to
disguise his feelings, so Kak grinned all over his round face and cried:

“Bully! Bully! Me for it! Do you hear, Noashak? I’m to drive the team.”

And he began to dance and jump about and was so delighted and excited
he quickly pulled on his fur shirt and his topcoat of reindeer skin,
and dashed out to pat young Sapsuk, his favorite dog, and tell him what
a fine day they were going to have together.

His mother gazed fondly on her son’s brown head as it disappeared
through the hole in the floor.

“Is it not too much for him?” she asked doubtfully. “Will the boy be
able to find his way?”

“Yes, he will be able to do it just as well as I. Kak is a smart lad
and has plenty of sense; besides, they have only to follow the trail we
broke last night.”

So Guninana, who thought her tall, active husband the best judge of
everything in the world, beamed on him and said no more.

Kak was keeping up a fine game with the dogs. He was so overjoyed he
could hardly stand still a minute. This seemed the greatest event in
his whole life; not only had his father trusted him with a man-sized
job for the first time, but it was the very job he loved best. Kak
would rather harness both dogs to the light sled and drive like the
wind than do anything else in the whole Arctic. He was so proud of his
task and so anxious to do it all by himself, that he waited and put off
and dilly-dallied about starting till his father had gone. Of course
Taptuna observed this, but he understood. He thought: “The boy will be
tired anyway when he has fetched two loads, so there is plenty of time.”

“Get busy, my lad. Kill meat while the light lasts,” he called for
farewell, and waving his harpoon toward the already crimsoned horizon,
trudged off leading the neighbor’s dog.

Kak loitered yet a little gloating over the prospect of his ride. He
wanted golden shafts of light bathing yesterday’s trail which showed
now plain as an open lead. He wanted to be able to tear along. One fast
dash to the carcass would more than make up for delay, so he fiddled
with the dogs.

“Have you not gone yet?” asked Guninana, surprised, when she came out
to examine her bearskin stretched on a frame to dry.

“Just as soon as the sun rises, mother, I’ll be away like an arrow.
See, I am harnessing now,” Kak answered.

He was, truly. He had begun to hitch each dog to its trace at the first
sound of her voice, and kept himself very busy about it.

Like all real boys, Kak did not mind a lot of extra trouble in
making play out of his work. It was fun to pretend he must go on a
long journey alone; so he went to the tunnel, which also serves as
storehouse, and taking his father’s big snow knife, used to carve out
the blocks when building, he bound it securely on to one side of the
sled.

“Whatever is that for?” asked Noashak, who was playing with the
neighbor girls, running up on top of the house and sliding down its
smooth curve. “What is the snow knife for?”

“In case I decide to stop overnight,” said Kak, swelling with
importance.

“Oh, pooh! Stay all night! Why you are only going to the whale carcass.
It is no distance at all! Daddy said you could easily make two trips in
daylight.”

Kak flushed. “I shall make double that--I shall make four!” he
answered, hotly. “Watch me!”

As he spoke the sun’s rim peeped above the long flat beach, streaking
the blue-gray world with vivid gold. As if at a signal Kak let go of
his team and sprang for the sled with a “Yi--yi--yip!” Instantly both
dogs bounded forward. They were off!

The boy shouted, waved his arms, knocked his heels on the sleigh and
beat his gloved hands together with resounding thwacks for the sheer
pleasure of making a noise, as the two fresh pups raced their shadows
over the crusted snow.

It was a wonderful ride to the whale. But once there Kak had to do some
hard work handling the big, rough pieces of frozen flesh and piling
them on the sled. Perhaps it was not a very large load when he called
time and headed the dogs home; still he felt satisfied with himself,
and was quite ready to put on airs; and the girls, who had been
mightily impressed by his glorious start, rushed to meet his return all
clamoring:

“A ride! A ride!”

“No, it is too heavy! We have much meat,” Kak swaggered.

“But I want a ride! I will ride!” whined Noashak, who was a very
selfish, naughty little girl, and deserved to be spanked. Now she made
her brother angry.

“Hold off there! Get off, I say! The dogs are too tired. They’re
panting. Look at Pikalu, how he puffs and blows.”

“That’s your fault! You have run him too fast. I will tell father on
you.”

Noashak was not a bit nice in a temper. She climbed up the back of the
load, and Kak cried to the other girls to pull her down, but they only
scampered away laughing; then he had to stop and go around and pull her
off himself. She kicked and slapped him and climbed up immediately they
started. Kak came and pulled her down again and again; but in the end
he had to let her ride because she screamed and yelled so. This sort of
welcome, repeated, delayed him a whole lot, yet he had brought his two
loads when the far edge of the ice floe dented the sun’s gleaming disk;
and after that he brought one more. It was good work for a boy. He felt
proud of himself and showed it, crowing over the girls.